demo/README.md, before:

# Harbor Demos

Example code showing how web pages can use the Harbor JS AI Provider to interact with AI models and MCP tools.

## Available Demos

| Demo | Description | Path |
|------|-------------|------|
| **Main Demo** | Full-featured chat with permissions flow | `/demo/index.html` |
| **Chat POC** | Minimal example code for developers | `/demo/chat-poc/` |
| **Page Summarizer** | Simple one-click page summarization | `/demo/summarizer/` |

## Quick Start

1. **Build and install the Harbor extension** (see main README)

2. **Install dependencies and start the server**:
   ```bash
   cd demo
   npm install
   npm start
   ```

3. **Open a demo in your browser**:
   - Main demo: `http://localhost:8000`
   - Chat POC: `http://localhost:8000/chat-poc/`
   - Page Summarizer: `http://localhost:8000/summarizer/`

4. **Connect to Harbor**:
   - Click "Connect to Harbor" 
   - Select the permissions you want to grant
   - The extension will show a permission prompt

5. **Start chatting**:
   - Type a message and hit Enter
   - Enable "Tools" to let the AI use MCP tools
   - Enable "Active Tab" to give context from the current tab

## Launching from Extension

You can also launch the demos directly from the Harbor extension sidebar:
- Click **"API Demo"** to open the chat-poc demo

## Features Demonstrated

- **Permission Request Flow**: Shows how to request and handle permissions
- **Text Generation**: Basic prompt → response using `window.ai`
- **Agent Tasks**: Run autonomous tasks with tool access using `window.agent.run()`
- **Tool Listing**: View available MCP tools
- **Streaming Responses**: Token-by-token output display
- **Tool Call Visualization**: See tool calls and results in collapsible panels

## API Usage Examples

### Basic Text Session

```javascript
const session = await window.ai.createTextSession();
const response = await session.prompt('Hello!');
console.log(response);
```

### Agent with Tools

```javascript
for await (const event of window.agent.run({
  task: 'Search for recent news about AI',
  maxToolCalls: 5,
})) {
  if (event.type === 'token') {
    console.log(event.token);
  }
}
```

### Read Active Tab

```javascript
const tab = await window.agent.browser.activeTab.readability();
console.log(tab.title, tab.text);
```

## Troubleshooting

**"Extension not detected"**
- Make sure the Harbor extension is installed and enabled
- Reload the page after installing the extension
- Check `about:debugging` to verify the extension is loaded

**Permission denied**
- You may have previously denied permissions for this origin
- Check the extension settings to reset permissions

**No tools available**
- Make sure MCP servers are connected in the Harbor sidebar
- Start servers in the sidebar before using tools

Commit message:

docs: rebrand to "Web Agent API" terminology
Update documentation and demos to use Web Agent API branding:
- JS_AI_PROVIDER_API.md updated to Web Agent API
- All demo files rebranded
- LLMS.txt updated

demo/README.md, after:

# Web Agent API Demos

Example code showing how web pages can use the **Web Agent API** (`window.ai` and `window.agent`) to interact with AI models and MCP tools.

These demos require **Harbor**, the reference implementation of the Web Agent API.

## Available Demos

| Demo | Description | Path |
|------|-------------|------|
| **Main Demo** | Full-featured chat with permissions flow | `/demo/index.html` |
| **Chat POC** | Minimal example code for developers | `/demo/chat-poc/` |
| **Page Summarizer** | Simple one-click page summarization | `/demo/summarizer/` |

## Quick Start

1. **Build and install the Harbor extension** (see main README)

2. **Install dependencies and start the server**:
   ```bash
   cd demo
   npm install
   npm start
   ```

3. **Open a demo in your browser**:
   - Main demo: `http://localhost:8000`
   - Chat POC: `http://localhost:8000/chat-poc/`
   - Page Summarizer: `http://localhost:8000/summarizer/`

4. **Grant Permissions**:
   - The demo will request Web Agent API permissions
   - Select the permissions you want to grant
   - Harbor will show a permission prompt

5. **Start chatting**:
   - Type a message and hit Enter
   - Enable "Tools" to let the AI use MCP tools
   - Enable "Active Tab" to give context from the current tab

## Launching from Extension

You can also launch the demos directly from the Harbor extension sidebar:
- Click **"API Demo"** to open the chat-poc demo

## Features Demonstrated

- **Permission Request Flow**: Shows how to request and handle permissions
- **Text Generation**: Basic prompt → response using `window.ai`
- **Agent Tasks**: Run autonomous tasks with tool access using `window.agent.run()`
- **Tool Listing**: View available MCP tools
- **Streaming Responses**: Token-by-token output display
- **Tool Call Visualization**: See tool calls and results in collapsible panels

## API Usage Examples

### Basic Text Session

```javascript
const session = await window.ai.createTextSession();
const response = await session.prompt('Hello!');
console.log(response);
```

### Agent with Tools

```javascript
for await (const event of window.agent.run({
  task: 'Search for recent news about AI',
  maxToolCalls: 5,
})) {
  if (event.type === 'token') {
    console.log(event.token);
  }
}
```

### Read Active Tab

```javascript
const tab = await window.agent.browser.activeTab.readability();
console.log(tab.title, tab.text);
```

## Troubleshooting

**"Web Agent API not detected"**
- Make sure Harbor (or another Web Agent API implementation) is installed
- Reload the page after installing the extension
- Check `about:debugging` to verify the extension is loaded

**Permission denied**
- You may have previously denied permissions for this origin
- Check the extension settings to reset permissions

**No tools available**
- Make sure MCP servers are connected in the Harbor sidebar
- Start servers in the sidebar before using tools
